Added TP 1.2.0 release notes for Serverless (#17841)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-rn-1-2-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/release-notes.adoc

[id="serverless-rn-1-2-0_{context}"]
//update the <version> to match the filename

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.2.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-2-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.9.0.

> * {ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} 4.2 now uses the Operator Lifecycle Manager dependency resolution mechanism to install the ServiceMesh operator automatically.

Reviewer: This lacks the second part of it where we also install and manage a ServiceMeshControlPlane + ServiceMeshMemberRoll for the user.

* Access to the KnativeServing resource is now restricted to `cluster-admin` roles to prevent any user from blocking the resource.
* The {ServerlessProductName} Operator can now be found in the OperatorHub by searching for "knative".
* The {product-name} web console now shows status conditions for the KnativeServing resource.

[id="fixed-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues
* In previous releases, using the same services or routes in different namespaces caused services to not work properly and caused {product-title} routes to be overriden. This issue has been fixed.
* In previous releases, different traffic split targets required a mandatory tag. A single traffic split can now be defined with `untagged` traffic targets.

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * Users may see the error `Unknown Uninitialized : Waiting for VirtualService to be ready` while waiting for a service.

Reviewer: A comment on this has been moved to the "Getting started" guide. Is that good enough?

Author: Probably - can you point me to where that is? Thanks.

Reviewer: It's in your own PR for the docs regarding Service Mesh.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/release-notes.adoc

[id="serverless-rn-1-2-0_{context}"]
//update the <version> to match the filename

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.2.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-2-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.9.0.
* {ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} 4.2 now uses the Operator Lifecycle Manager dependency resolution mechanism to install the ServiceMesh operator automatically. The required ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll are also installed and managed for the user.
* Access to the KnativeServing resource is now restricted to `cluster-admin` roles to prevent any user from blocking the resource. Only `cluster-admin` roles can create KnativeServing CRs.
* The {ServerlessProductName} Operator can now be found in the OperatorHub by searching for "knative".
* The {product-name} web console now shows status conditions for the KnativeServing resource.

> 

Reviewer 2: For the client I would add something like:

```
* The `kn` command client has been updated to use Knative client 0.9.0 with CLI support for the following {ServerProductName} features:
  - Traffic splitting among revisions
  - Setting annotations and labels for services
  - Specifying a `ServiceAccount` for a service
  - Support for user-provided revision names
  - Improved output when creating and updating services synchronously
  - Added `kn service describe` with human-readable output including the service URL, status conditions, labels, annotations, environment variables, concurrency options and more.
  - `kn service list` contains the latest revision name and supports a `--no-headers` options for omitting column headers
  - Support for plugins which work like `kubectl` plugins
  - Change of to a boolean option format `--foo` for "true" and `--no-foo` for "false"
  - Added `--all-namespaces` to list resources in all namespaces
  - `kn version` contains the supported Knative API version
```

* `Unknown Uninitialized : Waiting for VirtualService` error has been fixed.
* Knative service no longer returns a 503 status code when the cluster is running for a
long time.

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues
* Installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator on {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4 using OLM may incorrectly use community versions of the required dependencies. As a workaround, on  {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4, explicitly install the Red Hat provided versions of the Elastic Search, Jaeger, Kiali and ServiceMesh Operators before installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator.
* If you are upgrading the {ServerlessProductName} from version 1.1.0 to version 1.2.0 and you have set up a ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll to work with your Knative Serving instance, you will need to remove the `knative-serving` namespace and any other namespaces that contain Knative Services from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll in `istio-system`.
+

> You can also delete the ServiceMeshControlPlane from the namespace entirely if it is not required for other applications.

Reviewer: Let's add a sentence or two here on what interruptions are expected from the upgrade (as requested by Paul):

> Once the upgrade starts, existing services will continue to work as before. Once you unblock the release by removing the `knative-serving` (and all other relevant) namespaces from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll there will be a brief outage to all active services. This will fix itself. Make sure to remove all namespaces containing Knative Services from the original ServiceMeshMemberRoll.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/release-notes.adoc

[id="serverless-rn-1-2-0_{context}"]
//update the <version> to match the filename

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.2.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-2-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.9.0.
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Client (`kn` CLI) 0.9.0.

> * {ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} 4.2 now uses the Operator Lifecycle Manager dependency resolution mechanism to install the ServiceMesh operator automatically. The required ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll are also installed and managed for the user.

Reviewer 3: s/operator/Operator/

> * {ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} 4.2 now uses the Operator Lifecycle Manager dependency resolution mechanism to install the ServiceMesh operator automatically. The required ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll are also installed and managed for the user.

Reviewer 3: Since the OLM acronym is used later in the module, suggest:

s/Operator Lifecycle Manager/Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)

for this first instance.

* Access to the KnativeServing resource is now restricted to `cluster-admin` roles to prevent any user from blocking the resource. Only `cluster-admin` roles can create KnativeServing CRs.
* The {ServerlessProductName} Operator can now be found in the OperatorHub by searching for "knative".

> * The {product-name} web console now shows status conditions for the KnativeServing resource.

Reviewer 3: s/product-name/product-title/

* In version 1.2.0, the {ServerlessProductName} Operator inspects network policies for namespaces.
+

> If no network policy exists, the Operator will automatically create a wide open policy, to ensure that traffic can flow in and out of the namespace and OpenShift routes can be used.

Reviewer 3: Consider using active voice here ("the Operator automatically creates...") and a few more spots later.

+

> If there is an existing network policy, {ServerlessProductName} will not create a new policy. The Operator will expect the user to continue managing their own network policies as needed for their applications. For example, the user will need to set policies that allow traffic to flow in and out of the namespace, and allow OpenShift routes to still be used after the namespace is added to a ServiceMeshMemberRoll.

Reviewer 3: s/will need to/must/

[id="fixed-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues
* In previous releases, using the same services or routes in different namespaces caused services to not work properly and caused {product-title} routes to be overriden. This issue has been fixed.
* In previous releases, different traffic split targets required a mandatory tag. A single traffic split can now be defined with `untagged` traffic targets.
* Existing Knative Services and Routes which had been created with public visibility in {ServerlessProductName} Operator version 1.1.0 were not able to be updated to cluster-local visibility. This issue is now fixed.

> * `Unknown Uninitialized : Waiting for VirtualService` error has been fixed.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a "The" or "An" at the beginning?

* Knative service no longer returns a 503 status code when the cluster is running for a
long time.

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues
* Installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator on {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4 using OLM may incorrectly use community versions of the required dependencies. As a workaround, on  {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4, explicitly install the Red Hat provided versions of the Elastic Search, Jaeger, Kiali and ServiceMesh Operators before installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator.

> * If you are upgrading the {ServerlessProductName} from version 1.1.0 to version 1.2.0 and you have set up a ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll to work with your Knative Serving instance, you will need to remove the `knative-serving` namespace and any other namespaces that contain Knative Services from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll in `istio-system`.

Reviewer 3: s/will need to/must/

+
You can also delete the ServiceMeshControlPlane from the namespace entirely if it is not required for other applications.
+

> Once the upgrade starts, existing services will continue to work as before. Once you unblock the release by removing the `knative-serving` and any other relevant namespaces from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll, there will be a brief outage to all active Services. This will fix itself. Make sure that you remove all namespaces containing Knative Services from the original ServiceMeshMemberRoll.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the upgrade starts, existing services will continue to work as before but new services will never become ready. Once you unblock the upgrade by removing the `knative-serving` and any other relevant namespaces from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll, there will be a brief outage to all active Knative services. This will fix itself. Make sure that you remove all namespaces containing Knative Services from the original ServiceMeshMemberRoll.
```

[id="serverless-rn-1-2-0_{context}"]
//update the <version> to match the filename

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.2.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-2-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.9.0.
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Client (`kn` CLI) 0.9.0.
* {ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} 4.2 now uses the Operator Lifecycle Manager dependency resolution mechanism to install the ServiceMesh operator automatically. The required ServiceMeshControlPlane and ServiceMeshMemberRoll are also installed and managed for the user.
* Access to the KnativeServing resource is now restricted to `cluster-admin` roles to prevent any user from blocking the resource. Only `cluster-admin` roles can create KnativeServing CRs.
* The {ServerlessProductName} Operator can now be found in the OperatorHub by searching for "knative".
* The {product-name} web console now shows status conditions for the KnativeServing resource.
* In version 1.2.0, the {ServerlessProductName} Operator inspects network policies for namespaces.
+

> If no network policy exists, the Operator will automatically create a wide open policy, to ensure that traffic can flow in and out of the namespace and OpenShift routes can be used.

Reviewer 4: `and OpenShift routes can be used.` -> `and OpenShift routes can still be used after the namespace is added to a ServiceMeshMemberRoll.`

> If no network policy exists, the Operator will automatically create a wide open policy, to ensure that traffic can flow in and out of the namespace and OpenShift routes can be used.

Reviewer: This goes towards the same note I added to the two other PRs fwiw.

+

> If there is an existing network policy, {ServerlessProductName} will not create a new policy. The user will need to set policies that allow traffic to flow in and out of the namespace and OpenShift routes to be used.

Reviewer 4: `The user will need to set policies that allow traffic to flow in and out of the namespace and OpenShift routes to be used.` -> `The Operator will expect the user to continue managing their own network policies as needed for their applications.`

[id="fixed-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues
* In previous releases, using the same services or routes in different namespaces caused services to not work properly and caused {product-title} routes to be overriden. This issue has been fixed.
* In previous releases, different traffic split targets required a mandatory tag. A single traffic split can now be defined with `untagged` traffic targets.
* Existing Knative Services and Routes which had been created with public visibility in {ServerlessProductName} Operator version 1.1.0 were not able to be updated to cluster-local visibility. This issue is now fixed.
* `Unknown Uninitialized : Waiting for VirtualService` error has been fixed.
* Knative service no longer returns a 503 status code when the cluster is running for a
long time.

[id="known-issues-1-2-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * Installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator on {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4 using OLM may incorrectly use community versions of the required dependencies. As a workaround, on  {product-title} versions older than 4.2.4, explicitly install the Red Hat provided versions of the Elastic Search, Jaeger, Kiali and ServiceMesh Operators before installing the {ServerlessProductName} Operator.

Reviewer 5: Funny. I hit the bug today with 4.2.4. So I'm really not sure when this is fixed.

Author: @mgencur need confirmation on any change required here ahead of release - do we need to update the version?

Reviewer 5: No. Let's keep it.

* Namespaces are not automatically removed from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll managed by Knative Serving. If you want to reuse a namespace that once contained Knative Services or remove it entirely, please remove the respective namespace from the ServiceMeshMemberRoll by using the following command:
+
```
oc edit -n knative-serving-ingress smmr default

> ```

Reviewer: We no longer need this command and the remark above. We auto-remove namespaces from the SMMR now.
